> [Bc] Nature Transformation
<p align="center">Nature Transformation (性質変化, Seishitsu Henka) is an advanced form of chakra control that entails the moulding and defining of the nature of one's chakra, altering its properties and characteristics for use in techniques, or Jutsu.</p>
<p align="center">Nature transformation is one of two necessary components for creating or modifying a technique, the second component being shape transformation. While nature transformation changes the properties of the chakra, shape transformation changes the actual form and movement, altering its abilities. The release of elemental chakra is typically suffixed with "Release" (遁, Ton)</p>
[Cbu]Basic Natures
<p align="center">The Five Basic Natures (五大基本性質, Godai Kihon Seishitsu) are the five elemental chakra natures, which are the foundation of all elemental ninjutsu. They are so vital to the shinobi lifestyle that each of the Five Great Shinobi Countries is named after one of the five. Each element is naturally weaker than and stronger than another, but may be strongest when used in tandem.</p>
[Cu]Fire
Fire (火, Hi) is strong against Wind but weak against Water. When contested with Wind, Fire nature jutsu not only get a 25% bonus against the Wind jutsu, but if successful in overpowering the Fūton technique, increases it's effect by +25%. This also tends to deal 50% more damage against Wood. When pit against Water nature jutsu however, the Katon is 50% less effective.
[Cu]Wind
Wind (風, Kaze) is strong against Lightning but weak against Fire. When contested with Raiton, the Wind jutsu is 25% more effective. When contested with Fire, Wind nature jutsu only get a 25% penalty against the Fire jutsu, however, if used together with Katon with equivalent power, the jutsu merge and the effect of the new technique is increased by 25%. The effects of Fūton techniques may be increased by using fans to better manipulate and create air currents, adding +1% bonus per the rank of the fan used.
[Cu]Lightning
Lightning (雷, Kaminari) is strong against Earth but weak against Wind. When contested with Earth, Lightning nature jutsu not only get a 25% bonus against Earth jutsu, but if combined with Water, the effect of Lightning is increased by +25%. When pit against Wind nature jutsu however, the Raiton is 25% less effective.
[Cu]Earth
Earth (土, Tsuchi) is strong against Water but weak against Lightning. Against Water style jutsu, Earth gets a 25% bonus, however, against Raiton, Doton is 25% less effective. Because of it's heavy and solid quality, earth jutsu typically use the nearby ground in tandem with Doton chakra as a component to the jutsu, costing a quarter less chakra, at a 1 chakra point to pound of earth ratio, but becoming reliant on a source of earth to manipulate. This however may be overcome by more experienced shinobi with 100+ Chakra Control who, for 50% higher than the normal chakra cost of the technique, may form the earth entirely from their own chakra sans any earthly component!
[Cu]Water
Water (水, Mizu) is strong against Fire but weak against Earth. Suiton is 50% more effective when used against Fire, but is 25% less effective when contested with Earth. When merged with Lightning, the combined technique becomes 25% more effective! Because of it's complex versitility between sold, liquid, and gas like states, water jutsu typically use the nearby water in tandem with Suiton chakra as a component to the jutsu, costing half as much chakra, at a 1 chakra point to 1 cup (8oz) of water ratio, but becoming reliant on a source of water to manipulate. This however may be overcome by more experienced shinobi with 100+ Chakra Control who, for double the normal chakra cost of the technique, may form the water entirely from their own chakra sans any water component!
[Cu]Yin & Yang
Aside from the five elemental nature transformations, there are two nature transformations that are the source of all non-elemental techniques, such as the Shadow Imitation Technique, Multi-Size Technique, medical ninjutsu, genjutsu, etc. There is Yin Release (陰遁, Inton), based on the mind and spiritual energy of a shinobi, most notably used for Genjutsu, and Yang Release (陽遁, Yōton), based on the vitality and physical energy of a shinobi, most notably used for Iryojutsu. Together, they are used to perform Yin–Yang Release (陰陽遁, In'yōton, Onmyōton).
[Cbu]Advanced Natures
By using two or three basic nature transformations simultaneously, one can create a completely new, combined elemental nature with unique properties that wouldn't exist on its own. However, doing this requires a kekkei genkai or, if three elements are used, a kekkei tōta, or one from outside of any noble clan whom's body is untainted with complicated, hereditary DNA. Those with the ability to combine the elemental nature transformations must possess strong affinities for the chakra natures they must simultaneously use.
[Cu]Yin-Yang
Yin–Yang Release (陰陽遁, In'yōton, Onmyōton), which is the perfect union of Yin and Yang chakra natures, is said to be what the Sage of Six Paths used to split the chakra from the Juubi's body, before splitting it into 9 parts and breathing life into them to form the nine tailed beasts of legend. The transformation of Yin and Yang has to do with altering the balance between spiritual and physical energy in chakra. This nature is is 25% more effective aswell as 25% resistant to all other chakra natures. Cursed/malevolent chakra is 25% resistant and 25% more effective against this nature however, and sage/nature chakra is 50% more resistant and 50% more effective.
[Cu]Wood
Wood Release (木遁, Mokuton) is a nature transformation kekkei tōta, Wood release allows the user to seemingly create trees and logs of wood, both from the ground, out of the users body or even from pre-existing wood, and typically demonstrates chakra draining properties as the plant life may forcibly absorb all sorts of energy. The element of wood is weaker against Fire, being 50% less effective against it, but otherwise shares the same strengths and weaknesses as Earth and Water. Wood jutsu typically use the nearby plant life in tandem with Mokuton chakra as a component to the jutsu, costing half as much chakra, at a 1 chakra point to 4 cubic inches (4in³) of wood, ratio, but becoming reliant on a source of wood to manipulate. This however may be overcome by more experienced shinobi with 100+ Chakra Control who, for double the normal chakra cost of the technique, may form the wood entirely from their own chakra sans any plant component!
[Cu]Crystal Release
[Cbu]Variant Chakra
